# DataAnalysis-TerroristAttacks
Data Analysis: Terrorist Attacks and the Happiness of Nations
## Abstract
The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between terrorist attacks and countries’ happiness. For this study we used data for both the Global Terrorism Database and the World Happiness Report. The Global Terrorism Database includes a list of terrorist attacks recorded since 1970. The WHR includes a list of countries and their corresponding happiness score as well as the happiness that correspond to happiness such as health, family, GDP, etc. To visualize the data better, we created a map that interactively shows terrorists attacks across the world as dots. We aimed to find the correlation between the variables that influence the happiness score of a country and the number of terrorist attacks that the country had during the same time period. We found and analyzed the correlation coefficient between all the countries at a global level, and in different clusters. Our clusters included income levels of countries according the World Bank income classification scheme, and regions of the world. After analyzing our data we came to the conclusion that there is indeed some correlation between terrorist attacks and the variables that influence the happiness score of the citizens in most regions of the world. The correlations we found were weak to moderate, so we concluded that other factors have a greater influence on the happiness scores of countries.

## Conclusion 
After analyzing all our data we came to the conclusion the best fit distribution for our data was the poisson distribution due to its discrete properties as well as our data’s. We also determined that using stratified sampling in this project was the best approach, for it would be hard to find any strong correlations using the entire dataset or random, very distinct, values for the number of terrorist attacks. We determined that that the variables that influence happiness are indeed negatively correlated to terrorist attacks but that there are other factors which have a greater impact on the happiness score in spite of a high number of terrorist attacks.There is a significant difference between correlations in the different income brackets. The highest income countries showed the least correlation between terrorist attacks and their happiness scores. Middle income countries showed the greatest correlation between happiness score and terrorist attacks. Surprisingly, there are cases where some countries with high terrorist attack have a high happiness and don’t exhibit a substantial correlation between the two.
Some regions like Sub-Saharan African region display a direct relationship between its happiness score and the number of terrorist attacks in the country. This could be due to outliers skewing the data, or other factors not provided in our dataset. Further analysis is needed.
